it would be cool if you could see how a
real is going to do before you actually
post it on Instagram this brand new
Instagram feature that was just
announced is going to be a game changer
for business owners and content creators
on Instagram this is a feature that you
might have noticed on your own account
because Instagram has been testing it
really closely with creators for almost
a year now to try and figure out ways to
depressurize the experience of sharing
reals on Instagram and it is called
trial res essentially this feature will
allow you to test out your content and
see how it's going to perform before
posting it to the rest of your AUD
audience that's the idea behind a new
feature we're launching this week around
trial reels in this episode I'm going to
tell you a little bit more about what
this feature is how you can use it and
how to get the best results from trial
re in case you've never met before hello
my name is Brock Johnson it's my job to
help you grow and make money on
Instagram here on the build your tribe
podcast we are committed to putting out
a new episode every single Thursday on
the latest trends strategies and
techniques for growing and making money
on social media part of that is of
course keeping up with the new features
and the new updates on the different
platforms and this one is one of the
biggest changes to Instagram that we've
had at least in recent memory and the
super cool thing about this feature is
that it was clearly intended to help out
content creators and business owners
this isn't a tool that the average
person is going to use or probably even
know about so this was a feature that
was really for us for us who are trying
to make money on Instagram who are
trying to grow our audience and build
our tribe in order to test out our
content and see how it's going to
perform before posting it to the rest of
your audience like I said this feature
has been in testing for quite a few
months and so if you've noticed it on
your account before that's awesome that
means that you are part of Instagram's
test groups and basically they were
allowing you to have access to it to see
if there were any bugs or glitches that
came up but if you did have access to it
and you have used it I do want to
quickly say I wouldn't put too much
stock into the results or the outcomes
that were generated from using it in the
past because it was before the official
roll out or the official announcement
speaking of the official announcement
and roll out December 10th at 9:00 a.m.
Pacific Standard time was when Instagram
officially announced and began rolling
out this feature it would be cool if you
could see how a reel is going to do
before you actually post it on Instagram
that's the idea behind a new feature
we're launching this week around trial
res so we've been working on this really
closely with creators for almost a year
now to try and figure out ways to
depressurize the experience of sharing
reals on Instagram and the way this
works is you're going to be able to
share a reel and Market as a trial and
then it won't show up on your profile on
your reals tab or even for anybody who
follows you instead we will show it just
to some people who do not follow you and
you can see how it's doing I'd recommend
you look at how many likes and sends
it's getting per reach look at that
ratio and then you can decide after a
day or two if you actually want to
commit to sharing it with everybody who
follows you and having it show up on
your profile hopefully making the
experience of sharing reals a little bit
less pressurized and a little bit more
fun just because they're rolling out the
feature doesn't mean that everyone
magically has access unfort fortunately
Instagram can't flip a switch and give
all 2 billion people access to the same
features at the same time not to get too
lost in the sauce but basically there's
a lot of code and software and imagine
all of the hundreds if not thousands of
different devices that people are using
from all the different iPhones to the
Samsungs Androids iPads computers
desktops there's so many different
operating systems that are using
Instagram and so basically Instagram's
software Engineers have to make sure
that it works on every single platform
and even then there's all these
different countries and all these
different app versions and so my long
story short is just be patient you're
not going to magically instantly get
access to it just keep checking your
Instagram to see when you do have access
to it when you do get this feature it
will show up on the final page where you
add your caption before posting a reel
so once you've created your reel you've
added all the music you've added the
text you've written your caption whatnot
you will see a little toggle switch up
at the top right below your caption that
says trial real and you might even see a
little blue icon that says new next to
it that's just Instagram's way of
telling you that this is a new feature
the first time you turn this on
Instagram will have a little popup
window to explain more of what the
feature is the popup window will say try
out content with a new audience using
trial reels show a trial reel to
non-followers to get early feedback on
whether your content resonates you'll
see key insights within 24 hours after
sharing so you can understand how your
trial reel is performing and then the
third paragraph says trial reels don't
appear on your profile some followers
may still see your trial reel like when
someone shares it with them and then a
big button that says try it or a smaller
button that says close if you click try
it of course it will turn on the trial
re feature and then like that promotion
said basically your reel will be posted
to primarily non-followers it won't be
completely hidden from your existing
followers they will still be able to see
it if someone sends it to them or if
they access it in some other way but it
won't be showed in their main home feed
usually when you make a post on
Instagram the vast majority of the
initial viewers are people who are
already following you and that makes
sense when you open Instagram and you
see your home feed yes you see some ads
yes you see some recommended posts but
the majority of the posts at least it's
supposed to be this way the majority of
the posts in your home feed are from
people whom you follow and so by that
same logic the majority of people who
will be seeing your post usually are
going to be your existing followers the
cool thing about Trial reels is that you
will reach non-followers you will reach
people who do not already follow you so
that you can test whether or not the
Reel will perform well now I made an
announcement reel about this new feature
and one of the most common questions was
why would I want non-followers to see my
reals well there's a few reasons why
number one it's not just going to be a
random group of non-followers there's no
way Instagram would do that and it would
be really frustrating for us consumers
who are constantly being shown trial
reels from people who we don't follow
and are not interested in instead it's
going to be people who we do not follow
AKA your post will be shown to people
who are not already following you but
they're still interested the Instagram
algorithm has determined that they would
be a potential follower for you or they
are interested in the topic of your post
and so that's the group that it's going
to be shown to so the initial and
somewhat obvious benefit of this is that
those people could potentially follow
you because they're discovering your
content for the first time and they're
discovering it because it was
recommended to them based off of their
prior interests the second benefit and
the intention behind this feature was
that you can see how it's going to
perform now I think something that some
people may get confused with this is
they think that this is going to give
them some sort of boost in views or
engagement and that's not necessarily
the case instead of looking at the pure
numbers and the overall quantity of data
I think instead what we should focus on
is the percentages another way to say
that is focus on the engage ment rate
rather than the total amount of
Engagement let me give you an example if
I post a trial reel and let's say it
gets a th000 views in the first 24 hours
again 1,000 views from non-followers and
it gets really high engagement like
let's say it gets 400 likes and it gets
100 comments that's 500 pieces of
Engagement out of 1,000 views that's a
50% engagement rate just so you know the
industry average is like 2 to 3% for an
engagement rate so if you were getting
like a 50% engagement rate
that's off the charts and that's a great
indication for you that this post is
going to resonate with your audience as
well that this post is engaging that
it's captivating if you were to post a
trial reel and let's say it gets a th000
views in the first 24 hours but it only
gets two likes and one comment maybe
that's a super low engagement rate right
that's a 3% engagement rate and so that
engagement rate would suggest that this
content at least is not engaging to
non-followers maybe it's the type of
content that is only going to be
engaging to existing followers people
who already know you and know your story
or maybe it's just the fact that this
content isn't super great maybe the hook
isn't strong enough maybe there is some
sort of glitch or malfunction or error
with the music or the audio or the
closed captions or maybe the video is
just uh messed up alt together and so
this just gives you an opportunity to
test these things out before actually
posting to the rest of the world and
speaking of this idea that some posts
are only going to resonate with your
exting followers that's definitely true
there are definitely some posts that are
only going to make sense to your
existing Community or they're only going
to really connect the most with people
who already know you and your story we
all make posts like that from time to
time and I do think that that is an
important part of a successful Instagram
strategy not every post should be about
gaining new followers and reaching new
people some posts are going to be about
taking care of connecting with and
deepening your relationship with your
existing followers so if that's the case
if you're creating a reel that is meant
to go deeper with your existing
followers that's meant to kind of
highlight your own personal story or
your journey or it's just a more
personal Post in general I would
recommend not turning that post into a
trial reel you could if you just wanted
to test it beforehand but more than
likely because this was designed for
existing followers it's not going to
perform all that well for non-followers
now like I said a few minutes ago this
reel will not be shown on your profile
at first and it will not be shown to
your followers at first but it is a
trial re and so the cool thing that
Instagram allows us to do is based off
its performance we can then share it to
our followers and take it from trial
stage into real life existing real stage
once we make that decision or after a
few hours have passed you have two
options for going about this one option
is a toggle that you can turn on that
Instagram labels share to everyone
automatically and then the subtitle
below that says trial reels that get a
lot of views in the first 72 hours will
automatically be shared to everyone now
I have no idea how they Define a lot of
views and only time will tell how
Instagram determines what a lot of views
is I'm not clear on whether or not it's
a lot of views based off your own posts
like maybe your average post gets 500
views and so if it gets let's say 80% of
that if it gets 400 views then Instagram
will automatically share it maybe it's
looking for above your average or maybe
it's just like an overall number like
maybe if Instagram says hey you got more
than a thousand views regardless of what
your average views are or your average
number of followers is then we're going
to automatically share it not quite sure
there and I know that historically
Instagram has been let's just say not
the best at determining whether or not
your reel is performing better or worse
I don't know about you but I get
notifications all the time that say this
post is performing 80% better than your
average and then I look at it and I'm
like no it's not so I don't know where
Instagram is coming up with these
numbers and I say all of this to say if
you want to just set it and forget it
and turn on this feature go ahead but I
don't think that's a best practice
that's not what I would necessarily
recommend doing so rather than using the
automatically share to everyone feature
I would recommend manually checking your
reel and deciding whether or not it
should be shared with the rest of your
audience how do you do that well like I
read earlier Instagram will give you a
list of statistics and insights after
approximately 24 hours it does take some
time for Instagram to kind of pull in
the data and total up how many likes
views comments save shares all those
things that your real has received but
once 24 hours or so have passed and you
can look at that data then I think you
can make an informed decision on whether
you want to quote share to everyone view
more insights or just leave it as a
trial reel or even potentially delete or
archive the post now what sort of stats
or insights should you look for again I
think you should look less at the total
numbers and more at the engagement rate
I think that if you're seeing above a 5%
engagement rate which again engagement
rate is determined by adding up the
total number of engagements and dividing
that by the total number of views once
you have your engagement rate if it's
above 5% I would say that's a good
indicator that this is a generally
engaging reel of course every audience
is different maybe 5% for you is well
below average but just if you need a
general number to stick to I think 5% is
a good number to shoot for but if you
want a more precise measuring tool for
figuring out if this reel is worth
posting and worth sh ing to everyone or
just leaving as a trial ra I would
recommend spending a little bit of time
calculating your current average
engagement rate you can go on Google and
just look up engagement rate Checker and
you'll find a bunch of websites where
you can put in your Instagram username
and it will give you an engagement rate
but those aren't always super accurate
sometimes the data isn't up toate and
sometimes the exact equation that
they're using varies and so you might
check two sites and one tells you that
your engagement rate is 5.6% and the
other one tells you it's 2.3 and another
one tells you that it's 20.7 so I would
do the math yourself just look at your
total number of engagements per post
over the last 30 days so if over the
last 30 days you have been getting you
know 1,000 likes 500 comments and 20
saves then that would be 1,520
engagements and then divide that by your
average views over the last 30 days so
if you have been getting let's say
30,000 views per post then you can
divide 1,520 by 30,000 and that would
give you an engagement rate of 5% that
was just random numbers off the top of
my head so I don't know how we ended up
at 5% again but again just figure out
what your own personal average
engagement rate is over the last 30
maybe 60 or 90 days if you have the time
to dig deeper into the data and then
when you post one of these trial reels
you want to find an engagement rate or
you want to see an engagement rate that
is equal or at least close to your
current average engagement rate if it's
far below like let's say your average
engagement rate is 8% and you post a
trial reel and the engagement rate is
only about 1% then maybe you want to
reconsider posting that to your audience
and that's really where I think you
should leave it it's just reconsider I
don't want to say that if it's a low
engagement rate you should just
automatically delete it I don't think I
should say that if it's a high
engagement rate it's guaranteed to do
well with your audience but these are
just suggestions generalizations if your
engagement rate is very low with the
trial it's probably not going to do so
great with your audience if it's a very
high engagement rate with the trial
conversely it's probably going to do
very well with your a audience
ultimately at the end of the day these
are called trial reels and that's
exactly what they're for they're for
experimentation they're for testing new
things and I think that's something that
as content creators and business owners
we should all be doing anyways I think
that that's a great best practice and
Habit to get into with your content
creation and with your business is to
try out new kinds of content new posts
Etc and this is a great way to test
those things before posting them to the
wider audience now I will say this I'm a
big fan of just press post that is one
of my Motts that's one of my slogans
that's something you'll hear me say time
and time again and I'm a huge proponent
of just posting that into the world and
letting the audience letting your
followers letting the the internet as a
whole be the judge of your content
because at the end of the day you will
learn more you will grow more you will
become a better content creator through
looking at the data and the feedback
that your followers or your
non-followers have given you rather than
just analyzing the post as it sits in
your drafts or in your camera role and
so I think this could be a really
helpful tool for those of us who have
analysis paralysis and those of us who
have a bunch of content ideas or a bunch
of things sitting in our drafts or our
camera roll that we're scared to post
maybe you could post these things as
trial reels because then you don't have
the pressure of your audience seeing it
you have an opportunity to test out the
content where I think some of us could
get into trouble is I do think that
trial res could create some of its own
analysis paralysis where suddenly
instead of just posting your reel every
single day you're posting it as a trial
reel and then testing how it's going to
do for a few days and then you're
overanalyzing how it's doing I
definitely see that as a realistic
possibility and so ultimately I think
you have to know yourself you have to
know your own mindset you have to know
what's best for you as a content creator
as a business owner and just as a human
being for your own mental Health's sake
trial reels might be a great way for
some people to test their content and
see how it's going to perform before
sharing it to a widespread audience it
might be a great way for some people to
show their content to non-followers
without the pressure of showing it to
their existing audience but for other
people the exact opposite could be true
for other people this could create
perfectionism it could create a constant
game of comparison the comparison trap
where you're constantly comparing your
trial reels to your other reels and also
of course there are just mistakes that
are going to be made like I said earlier
there will be some re that are going to
perform really well as trials but you're
going to post them to your followers and
maybe your followers just aren't
interested for what a reason or the
opposite might be true you might have a
real that is doing really poorly as a
trial and so you never post it to your
audience your followers never get to see
that real because you think it was going
to do bad but in reality it was going to
do great it was going to go viral it was
going to blow up you just never know and
so I think that this is a very helpful
tool and I'm very appreciative of
Instagram for creating this tool and it
shows a clear intention in trying to
help out us content creators and
business owners But ultimately it is up
to each content creator and business
owner to know themselves VES to know
their account to know Their audience and
to know their content to ultimately
determine what should versus what
shouldn't be a trial re and how much
you're going to use this feature thank
you so much for being here today and for
watching or listening to this episode if
you enjoyed this content and you want
more information about growing on social
media the latest trends and the latest
new features make sure to hit that
subscribe button so that every single
new episode that we put out which is
every Thursday by the way automatically
shows up on your podcast app or your
YouTube account whichever you prefer and
as always I just want to say Happy
networking